---
created: 2022-04-04T08:57:10-04:00
modified: 2022-04-04T08:57:10-04:00
---

# Vegetable barley soup

go to homepage
Home > Main Course > Instant Pot Vegetable Barley Soup

INSTANT POT VEGETABLE BARLEY SOUP
Published: Mar 21, 2019, Modified: Mar 20, 2019

 Recipe  Print
This Instant Pot Vegetable Barley Soup is a quick and easy recipe to enjoy a wholesome and nutritious soup. Full of flavors and takes about 30-40 min to prepare. And a perfect vegetable soup for weeknight dinners.

This Instant Pot Vegetable Barley Soup is a quick and easy recipe to enjoy a wholesome and nutritious soup. Full of flavors and takes about 30-40 min to prepare. And a perfect vegetable soup for weeknight dinners. | #watchwhatueat#barley #barleysoup #vegan #instantpotsoup
Do you have an Instant Pot? Have you tried making all-in-one pot soups in it? I guess it’s safe to assume you own one that’s why you are visiting this page!

I feel Instant Pots are perfect for making all-in-one pot dishes. You can saute, steam, boil, and pressure cook a variety of foods in it. And you can also cook whole cauliflower head and whole chicken in Instant Pot. The other thing I love about it is that you don’t have to soak the grains or beans before cooking them (e.g this Instant Pot black bean soup).

This Instant Pot Vegetable Barley Soup is a quick and easy recipe to enjoy a wholesome and nutritious soup. Full of flavors and takes about 30-40 min to prepare. And a perfect vegetable soup for weeknight dinners. | #watchwhatueat#barley #barleysoup #vegan #instantpotsoup



Now enough of praise, let’s get back to our Instant Pot vegetable barley soup. This recipe is inspired by our most popular Healthy Barley Soup on the blog. With some slight variations, I have configured this soup for Instant Pot. It really takes far less amount of time to cook barley in the Instant Pot compared to on the stove top.

   Easy Vegetable Healthy Barley Soup

How Long Barley Soup Takes To Cook In Instant Pot?
According to Instant Pot manual whole grain barley takes around 20-25 min on high pressure. Overcooking the barley in the soup results in a starchy and thick consistency. Therefore I cook the barley on high pressure for 20 min and release the pressure manually as soon as pressure cooking is over. If you let the pressure release naturally, the barley gets overcooked which you may not like.


Pearl barley grains for making Vegetable Barley Soup. #barleysoup

How To Make Instant Pot Vegetable Barley Soup?
On sautee mode of the Instant Pot cook some onions and chopped garlic in little oil. Then add fresh vegetables like diced carrot, red pepper, celery, and edamame beans. Generously season with dried thyme, salt, and pepper. Finally, add water and veggie or chicken stock or broth. Close the lid and cook on high pressure for about 20 min.


Fresh vegetables and beans for making Instant Pot Vegetable Barley Soup. #barleysoup

Instant Pot Barley Soup Recipe – Helpful Tips
I use pearl barley grains for making this soup.


Use chicken stock or vegetable stock to make the soup more delicious and to increase its nutrient value.
Do not forget to release the pressure manually and open the lid after pressure cooking timer turns off. Leaving the steam to release naturally will overcook the barley. 

Instant Pot Vegetable Barley Soup - Cook fresh vegetables and whole barley in Instant Pot to prepare this one-pot delicious easy and healthy barley soup in about 30 mins. | #watchwhatueat#barley #barleysoup #vegan #instantpotsoup

You Will Also Love These Instant Pot Recipes
Black Bean Soup In Instant Pot
Instant Pot Whole Chicken with Gravy
Instant Pot Whole Cauliflower with Gravy

 

FOOD FOR THE SOUL


Meditation is the only way you can grow…Because when you meditate, you are in silence. You are in thoughtless awareness. Then the growth of awareness takes place — Shri Mataji  

(Experience your self-realization now.)

This Instant Pot Vegetable Barley Soup is a quick and easy recipe to enjoy a wholesome and nutritious soup. Full of flavors and takes about 30-40 min to prepare. And a perfect vegetable soup for weeknight dinners. | #watchwhatueat#barley #barleysoup #vegan #instantpotsoup



Recommended
Recommended Content
Hearty Healthy Chicken Barley soup
Read More 
Recommended Content
Easy Vegetable Pasta Soup Recipe
Read More 
Recommended Content
Healthy Instant Pot Cauliflower With Delicious Gravy
Read More 
This Instant Pot Vegetable Barley Soup is a quick and easy recipe to enjoy a wholesome and nutritious soup. Full of flavors and takes about 30-40 min to prepare. And a perfect vegetable soup for weeknight dinners. | #watchwhatueat#barley #barleysoup #vegan #instantpotsoup
 Print  Pin
4.84 from 6 votes
Instant Pot Vegetable Barley Soup Recipe
Cook fresh vegetables and whole barley in Instant Pot to prepare this one-pot delicious and healthy soup in about 30 mins.
Course: Lunch / Dinner,Main DishCuisine: American Inspired
 Prep Time 10 minutes Cook Time 20 minutes Total Time 30 minutes
Servings :4
Calories :328kcal
Author:Swati Kadam Gulati | Watch What U Eat
Ingredients
3/4 cup pearl barley
1 tsp  cooking oil
1 medium onion diced
2-3 garlic cloves finely chopped
1 carrot peeled and diced
1/2 red pepper diced (or more)
2 small celery stalks diced
1 1/2 cup edamame beans.
1 tsp  thyme
salt and pepper
4 cup vegetable stock (or chicken stock)
2 cup water
1 tbsp lime juice optional
fresh cilantro for garnishing
